# Ansible Roles

**Deliveries:**

- Deepdive into Ansible Inventories.
- Understand Ansible Playbooks and Roles.
- Create an Ansible Role.

**Reading materials:**

- [Working with Inventory — Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.7/user_guide/intro_inventory.html)
- [Working with Patterns — Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.6/user_guide/intro_patterns.html)

- [Working with playbooks — Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks.html)

**Timing:**

- DIY: 14.5h
- Frontal: 1.5h

**Drill:**

- Answer the next questions.
  - What is the when option and how do you use it?
  - How do you use blocks?
  - How do you include tasks from external files?
  - What is the difference between include and import?
  - How do you pass variables at the command line?
  - How do you ask for a variable prompt?
  - Why is a bad idea to commit secret data into a git repository?
  - What are some of the ways to keep secret data out of a repository (Using Ansible)?
  - Where would you save Ansible configurations?
  - How does Ansible indicate if something changed?
  - Where are some places variables can be registered?
  - How do you loop over a list or a dictionary in Ansible?
  - How do you define dependencies between roles?
  - Why would you use the omit filter?
  - Why would you use a mandatory variable in Ansible? and how do you define them?
  - What is the usage of the assert module?
  - What is a handler?
  - Where would you save your variables when you are writing a role?
  - Why would you create more than one file in the tasks directory when you&#39;re writing a role?
- Create a VM with 3 block devices of 10GB each. Use ansible to:
  - Create a volume group _&quot;vgans01&quot;_ that contains all 3 devices
  - Create 2 logical volumes _&quot;lvans01&quot;_ and _&quot;lvans02_&quot; (15GB each)
  - On each of the LVs create an XFS filesystem
  - On the machine, create 2 directories: _&quot;dir01&quot;_ and _&quot;dir02&quot;_
  - Mount _lvans01_ onto _dir01_ and _lvans02_ onto _dir02_
